---
title: '2024: Risk'
updated: 2024-12-31 16:36
year: 2024
published: true
category: Essay
tag: [Reflection]
permalink: '/blog/risk'
type: post
defaultExpanded: true
description: 'So I lean in. I shoot my shot, and think I had it. I used to, every day, wake up thanking god I was alone, now I just wake up and thank god.'
seoDescription: 'Diary from San Francisco: what does it mean to live as a contradiction. To be duplicitous is to be uncertain. Without that uncertainty, there will be no doubt, and therefore no faith.'
---

Come to think of it, I was a hypocrite — preaching adventure while clinging to the shores for safety. When the moment came to leap, the cruel calculus of risk paralyzed me. I suppose those of us who serve an ideal can’t always be the ideal: I was a missionary pontificating rage I could not muster myself. So I retreated to the monastery, silently observing others dive into the unknown, one by one.

But I began taking more risks this year. Stillness, I realized, might cost me more than a leap. At 23, the price of failure is low: time is an ally to cushion even the wildest mistakes. With age, the calculus flips. Risks become more expensive as the leeway to course-correct narrows, Meanwhile, the reward for those risks dwindle with time, much like the diminishing value of experiences as outlined in _Die With Zero_. A risk taken now might yield value immeasurable: the thrill of discovery, the stories to tell decades later, the change you never knew you needed. To wait too long is to find that the bounty has withered, reduced to potential unrealized, unspent, and unlived.

Then there is this machine of working life that has begun to hum around me. Day folds into day when fueled by inertial routine (and I thought I knew in college). Without risks, I see now, life threatens to flatten itself into a cornfield that stretches unbroken to the horizon. I see someone remarking, years from now, “You used to be lonely and lost, but so ambitious,” after I’ve been dulled by acquiescing to all that life throws at me. Wouldn’t it be absurd if when I play it back, I realize _that_ was it? That there’s a point from which my life was decided? A point at which the grand, sprawling map of branching paths collapses into one dim and narrow routine? One straight line through the cornfield?

I must leap, I’ve decided, if only to shatter that plain.

That’s why even though I know, infatuation is a mental illness. I still jumped down from the cliff by which the monastery stood. Because someday what’s true will turn out to be false. Someday what you loved you won't love anymore. Who you loved, won’t love you anymore. Then, recalling today’s flushed cheeks and tosses and turns and screaming, crying, throwing up, only leaves one lament for one missed opportunity.

So I lean in. I shoot my shot, and think I had it. I used to, every day, wake up thanking god I was alone, now I just wake up and thank god.

The feeling of being caught up — Gracie Abrams puts it perfectly: “**Thinking you’re right** when you’re probably wrong,” of “**God, I’m actually invested,** think I really want this, I’m not even kidding,” of “**Look at me now, said I wouldn’t do it** but I hunted you down.” I can’t say if this is good or bad, as most things in life can only be evaluated in hindsight. But it’s _something_. And that _something_ feels alive. Am I desperate to feel? Am I easily convinced? Is anything, at this point, ready to change my life? Or is this it? Has this been who I am all along?

It surprised me: that I’m actually a very flexible person, in all kinds of definitions. That I have such a capacity to love. That I can change all my plans, deal in the taboo, dream up something wild, and even offer myself up for rejection, all for something as elusive as it's illogical. Paid the price of real intimacy; been wounded, actually and acutely. It cracked a hole open through my body, and somehow, I’m still ok. It’s proof, I hope, of resilience.

I took risks when I punctuated the monotony of work with monthly trips. The result was 345 hours in the air, 110 hours more than last year. I took risks when I woke up sweating in the hotel bed, silently muttering, “I’m not convinced.” But it wasn’t an argument. Also when I dozed off in a club, frames slowing to a montage. I started to study the lights and analyze other people’s sobriety. I thought it would, but osmosis failed to funnel the sea of relatively higher concentration of substances into me. Those risks proved something: it’s better to have tasted and hate than to fear tasting at all. Even brownouts, I’ve learned, aren’t as terrible as I imagined. I might not recall much, but I think, I was happy? I felt love.

Some principles, I guess it’s ok to lose them. Some pacts can be amended. When liberated, you get a chance to re-ask the big questions. Who do you want to be? What life do you want to live? What is the person you want to love? As opposed to being firm all the way, it makes for a far better story, if you tremble and rethink, as you’re tapped gently by fate.

At my absolute lowest this year, I was staring into the pacific ocean. MUNA’s “Kind of Girl” was playing: “I like telling stories, But I don’t have to write them in ink, I could still change the end.” That delusional cry — _I can change the end_ — reminds me that change is still possible, there’s another way to chase out of the cornfield. Indeed, every leap I took, every principle I abandoned, everything I said I wouldn’t do and then did, I am rewriting the end.

This is the time to dip into those risks with fewer calculations and less retreat. Don't ask why, just feel and be. Dive into the deep end knowing the risk is drowning. Fear, but jump anyway.

In Chiang Mai, I was jolting up and down on the Grab bike, holding on for dear life as the wind slit my hair into a thousand shimmering strands of light. The wind takes me back to the nights when I drove down CA-60 at 11 pm. The part by Montebello always had no streetlights nor cars. My windows were down. I was screaming “I’m a shotgun running away” into the void and hearing only the wind’s wail in return. I love the wind, love the freedom of the road. I always loved the idea of risk. Now I’m in it.
